EN/Mining And Earning On It/b. Summary Of Mining Node Requirements/lesson.md, before:

# Summary Of Mining Node Requirements #

 - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
   - [Node Requirements](#node-requirements)
   - [Block Generation Requirements](#block-generation-requirements)
 - [Getting Started](#getting-started)


---

## Prerequisites ##

To have a mining node that would bring you an income, it is necessary to have requirements for both [having a node](#node-requirements) and [block generation](#block-generation-requirements) fulfilled.<br>
[Node requirments](#node-requirements) are general technical requirements necessary for your computer to deploy a node.<br>
These requirements would be enough to have a validating node connected to the Waves blockchain network.<br>
[Block generation requirements](#block-generation-requirements) are the necessary conditions that would enable block generation and getting a reward for it.<br>

---

### Node Requirements ###

To deploy a node there are no other requirements but the requirements for computer capacity:<br>

| Minimum Requirements | CPU | RAM | SSD | 
| :---------- | :----------:  | :----------:  | :----------: |
| [Validating Node](https://docs.waves.tech/en/blockchain/node/validating-node) | 2 | 4 GB| 100 GB SSD|
| [Generating Node](https://docs.waves.tech/en/blockchain/node/mining-node) | 2+ | 4+ GB| 100+ GB SSD|

---

### Block Generation Requirements ###

<!-- Every generating node should have an account attached to it.
Generating account is an account that node uses for signing generated blocks. -->

To have a generating node, it is necessary to satisfy 2 general conditions:
- Have the node's account generating balance at least 1000 WAVES for the last 1000 blocks.<br>
(Below an illustrative example will be given)
- Node's account is not a [smart account]() or [dApp]().<br>
By default, any created account is a regular account that is not a smart account or dApp, unless an account script was attached.<br>
<br>

Let's give an example of a node that is ready for mining.<br>
It can be a laptop with a 2+ CPU cores, 4+GB of RAM, and 100+ GB of SSD.<br>
There we have a regular [account](https://docs.waves.tech/en/blockchain/account/create) created and attached to the node.<br>
The generating balance of this account is 1000 WAVES for the last 1000 blocks.<br>
The table below can demonstrate with examples the meaning of these 2 requirements:

| Requirement Description | Example|
| :----- | :----- |
| **<ins>Generating balance</ins>** is the balance of your account that:<br>- Deductes all the funds you leased to some accounts;<br>- Adds all the funds any other accounts leased to your account.<br><br>| For instance, our imaginary balance is 1005 WAVES:<br>- 700 of them were our own WAVES;<br>- 200 of them we leased to our friend Alex;<br>- 505 of them we received by our friend Diana in lease.<br><br>700 - 200 + 505 = 1005 WAVES, our generating balance. |
| **<ins>Last 1000 blocks</ins>** is the last 1000 blocks from the current blockchain height. | Let's assume the current blockchain height is 3,211,000 blocks.<br>For us, it would be necessary to have the generating balance, starting from the moment, when it was the block 3,210,000,<br>up to the current blockchain height, i.e. 3,211,000 blocks.<br>

<br>

---

## Getting Started ##

Depending on your operating system, there are different ways of node deployment.<br>
For every OS, there will be 2 ways of node installation:
- Docker container;
- Package installation.s

Below you may find links to instructions of how to make it with your OS:<br>
- [Ubuntu]()
- [MacOS]()
- [Windows]()

Commit message:

what's mining/summary of node requirements templates

EN/Mining And Earning On It/b. Summary Of Mining Node Requirements/lesson.md, after:

# Summary Of Mining Node Requirements #

 - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
   - [Node Requirements](#node-requirements)
   - [Block Generation Requirements](#block-generation-requirements)
 - [Getting Started](#getting-started)


---

## Prerequisites ##

To have a mining node that would bring you an income, it is necessary to have requirements for both [having a node](#node-requirements) and [block generation](#block-generation-requirements) fulfilled.<br>
[Node requirments](#node-requirements) are general technical requirements necessary for your computer to deploy a node.<br>
These requirements would be enough to have a validating node connected to the Waves blockchain network.<br>
[Block generation requirements](#block-generation-requirements) are the necessary conditions that would enable block generation and getting a reward for it.<br>

---

### Node Requirements ###

To deploy a node there are no other requirements but the requirements for computer capacity:<br>

| Minimum Requirements | CPU | RAM | SSD | 
| :---------- | :----------:  | :----------:  | :----------: |
| [Validating Node](https://docs.waves.tech/en/blockchain/node/validating-node) | 2 | 4 GB| 100 GB SSD|
| [Generating Node](https://docs.waves.tech/en/blockchain/node/mining-node) | 2+ | 4+ GB| 100+ GB SSD|

---

### Block Generation Requirements ###

<!-- Every generating node should have an account attached to it.
Generating account is an account that node uses for signing generated blocks. -->

To have a generating node, it is necessary to satisfy 2 general conditions:
- Have the node's account generating balance at least 1000 WAVES for the last 1000 blocks.<br>
(Below an illustrative example will be given)
- Node's account is not a [smart account]() or [dApp]().<br>
By default, any created account is a regular account that is not a smart account or dApp, unless an account script was attached.<br>
<br>

Let's give an example of a node that is ready for mining.<br>
It can be a laptop with a 2+ CPU cores, 4+GB of RAM, and 100+ GB of SSD.<br>
There we have a regular [account](https://docs.waves.tech/en/blockchain/account/create) created and attached to the node.<br>
The generating balance of this account is 1000 WAVES for the last 1000 blocks.<br>
The table below can demonstrate with examples the meaning of these 2 requirements:

| Requirement Description | Example|
| :----- | :----- |
| **<ins>Generating balance</ins>** is the balance of your account that:<br>- Deductes all the funds you leased to some accounts;<br>- Adds all the funds any other accounts leased to your account.<br><br>| For instance, our imaginary balance is 1005 WAVES:<br>- 700 of them were our own WAVES;<br>- 200 of them we leased to our friend Alex;<br>- 505 of them we received by our friend Diana in lease.<br><br>700 - 200 + 505 = 1005 WAVES, our generating balance. |
| **<ins>Last 1000 blocks</ins>** is the last 1000 blocks from the current blockchain height. | Let's assume the current blockchain height is 3,211,000 blocks.<br>For us, it would be necessary to have the generating balance, starting from the moment, when it was the block 3,210,000,<br>up to the current blockchain height, i.e. 3,211,000 blocks.

---

## Getting Started ##

Depending on your operating system, there are different ways of node deployment.<br>
For every OS, there will be 2 ways of node installation:
- Docker container;
- Package installation.

Below you may find links to instructions of how to make it with your OS:<br>
- [Ubuntu]()
- [MacOS]()
- [Windows]()

After a node is installed, we can go on with [node configuration and starting mining]().<br>
